---
title: "Infrastructure provisioning"
subtitle: "Essential and accidental complexity"
slug: "iac"
date: 2025-03-10T20:00:00-04:00
tags: ['iac', 'k8s']
draft: true
---

Sometimes, you just get sick of not knowing how things work, and you
have to take a little "structured procrastination" side-quest, current
assigned task be damned. This is an idiosyncratic view: I mostly
focused on tools that tend to get mentioned at my company, and this is
not my area. But I think there are nonetheless some useful ideas it
would be worth communicating.

## The problem

There are currently 900 startups with indistinguishable landing pages
that all say something like, "Infrastructure as code for your
Kubernetes clusters, done right." The whole space is a mess, and
hasn't settled down yet. Not only have clear winners not emerged, but
it doesn't even seem that a clear _model_ has emerged. How to think
about the space?

## Declarative vs Imperative

In the old times, a cool infrastructure tool let you run bash scripts
on a thousand hosts at once. And when they broke on 23 machines
you... well, either ran them again (hope every step was safe to
re-run!), or wrote _another_ script to fix things, or went and fixed
them one by one.

Things got more declarative: instead of specifying a list of steps,
try to specify the shape you'd like the resulting world to be in, and
let the tool pick the steps to get there. Instead of "upgrade Django
to version 1.1 by running this command", you said, "I want Django to
be at version 1.1". Subtle difference, but important.

Then came Kubernetes. In my opinion
